After you train a sequence model, one of
the ways you can informally get a sense of
what is learned is to have
a sample novel sequences.
Let's take a look at
how you could do that.
So remember that a sequence model,
models the chance of any
particular sequence of words as follows,
and so what we like to do is
sample from this distribution to
generate noble sequences of words.
So the network was trained using
this structure shown at the top.
But to sample, you do something
slightly different, so what you want to
do is first sample what is the first
word you want your model to generate.
And so for that you input the usual
x1 equals 0, a0 equals 0.
And now your first time stamp
will have some max probability
over possible outputs.
So what you do is you then randomly sample
according to this soft max distribution.
So what the soft max distribution gives
you is it tells you what is the chance
that it refers to this a, what is
the chance that it refers to this Aaron?
What's the chance it refers to Zulu,
what is the chance that the first
word is the Unknown word token.
Maybe it was a chance it was
a end of sentence token.
And then you take this vector and
use, for example, the numpy command
np.random.choice to sample
according to distribution
defined by this vector probabilities, and
that lets you sample the first words.
Next you then go on to
the second time step, and
now remember that the second time
step is expecting this y1 as input.
But what you do is you then take
the y1 hat that you just sampled and
pass that in here as the input
to the next timestep.
So whatever works,
you just chose the first time step passes
this input in the second position, and
then this soft max will make
a prediction for what is y hat 2.
Example, let's say that after
you sample the first word,
the first word happened to be z,
which is very common choice of first word.
Then you pass in v as x2,
which is now equal to y hat 1.
And now you're trying to figure
out what is the chance of what
the second word is given
that the first word is d.
And this is going to be y hat 2.
Then you again use this type of
sampling function to sample y hat 2.
And then at the next time stamp,
you take whatever choice you had
represented say as a one hard encoding.
And pass that to next timestep and
then you sample the third word
to that whatever you chose, and
you keep going until you
get to the last time step.
And so
how do you know when the sequence ends?
Well, one thing you could do is if
the end of sentence token is part
of your vocabulary, you could keep
sampling until you generate an EOS token.
And that tells you you've hit the end
of a sentence and you can stop.
Or alternatively, if you do not
include this in your vocabulary
then you can also just decide to sample
20 words or 100 words or something, and
then keep going until you've
reached that number of time steps.
And this particular procedure will
sometimes generate an unknown word token.
If you want to make sure that your
algorithm never generates this token,
one thing you could do is just reject any
sample that came out as unknown word token
and just keep resampling from the rest of
the vocabulary until you get
a word that's not an unknown word.
Or you can just leave it in the output as
well if you don't mind having an unknown
word output.
So this is how you would generate
a randomly chosen sentence
from your RNN language model.
Now, so
far we've been building a words level RNN,
by which I mean the vocabulary
are words from English.
Depending on your application,
one thing you can do is also
build a character level RNN.
So in this case your vocabulary
will just be the alphabets.
Up to z, and as well as maybe space,
punctuation if you wish,
the digits 0 to 9.
And if you want to distinguish
the uppercase and lowercase,
you can include the uppercase
alphabets as well, and
one thing you can do as you just
look at your training set and
look at the characters that appears there
and use that to define the vocabulary.
And if you build a character level
language model rather than a word level
language model,
then your sequence y1, y2, y3,
would be the individual
characters in your training data,
rather than the individual
words in your training data.
So for our previous example, the sentence
cats average 15 hours of sleep a day.
In this example,
c would be y1, a would be y2,
t will be y3,
the space will be y4 and so on.
Using a character level language
model has some pros and cons.
One is that you don't ever have to
worry about unknown word tokens.
In particular,
a character level language model
is able to assign a sequence like mau,
a non-zero probability.
Whereas if mau was not in your vocabulary
for the word level language model,
you just have to assign it
the unknown word token.
But the main disadvantage of
the character level language model
is that you end up with
much longer sequences.
So many english sentences
will have 10 to 20 words but
may have many, many dozens of characters.
And so character language models are not
as good as word level language models at
capturing long range
dependencies between how
the the earlier parts of the sentence also
affect the later part of the sentence.
And character level models are also just
more computationally expensive to train.
So the trend I've been seeing in
natural language processing is that for
the most part, word level language
model are still used, but
as computers gets faster there are more
and more applications where people are,
at least in some special cases, starting
to look at more character level models.
But they tend to be much hardware, much
more computationally expensive to train,
so they are not in widespread use today.
Except for maybe specialized applications
where you might need to deal with
unknown words or
other vocabulary words a lot.
Or they are also used in more
specialized applications where you
have a more specialized vocabulary.
So under these methods,
what you can now do is build an RNN to
look at the purpose of English text,
build a word level, build a character
language model, sample from
the language model that you've trained.
So here are some examples of text
thatwere examples from a language model,
actually from a culture
level language model.
And you get to implement something like
this yourself in the [INAUDIBLE] exercise.
If the model was trained on news articles,
then it generates texts like
that shown on the left.
And this looks vaguely like news text,
not quite grammatical,
but maybe sounds a little bit like
things that could be appearing news,
concussion epidemic to be examined.
And it was trained on
Shakespearean text and
then it generates stuff that sounds
like Shakespeare could have written it.
The mortal moon hath her eclipse in love.
And subject of this thou
art another this fold.
When besser be my love to me see sabl's.
For whose are ruse of mine eyes heaves.
So that's it for the basic RNN, and how
you can build a language model using it,
as well as sample from the language
model that you've trained.
In the next few videos, I want to discuss
further some of the challenges of training
RNNs, as well as how to adjust some of
these challenges, specifically vanishing
gradients by building even more
powerful models of the RNN.
So in the next video let's talk about
the problem of vanishing the gradient and
we will go on to talk about the GRU, Gate
Recurring Unit as well as the LSTM models.